Title: Throw down any advice for incoming freshmen
Source: https://www.reddit.com/r/stanford/comments/1kpj9n5/throw_down_any_advice_for_incoming_freshmen/
Type: Reddit thread (r/stanford)
Fetched: 2026-06-09 (via pullpush.io archive)
---

ORIGINAL POST:
Hello, pretty much the title, what's some advice you would give any incoming freshman (like how many credits to take per quarter freshman year, best dining halls etc.) or some things that you believe are important to understanding before stepping foot on campus. Now that graduation is here, I'm really trying to shift gears and start prepping for my transition to Stanford. (Also, is there anything over the summer we should do to prepare as far as coursework? I plan on doing meche.) Thank you all!!

COMMENTS:

[score 15] I'm going to comment on something you didn't mention: cheating. Unfortunately you're enrolling at Stanford at a time when cheating is rampant, is simple to achieve, does not implicate anyone other than the cheater, and has a low (but not zero) chance of getting the cheater caught. It is so easy to cheat now that the temptation is incredible, and you will feel that tug. You also may not agree with a professor who bans certain tools as cheating, making it easier to rationalize it. And, you'll see all your friends cheating and will think that you should, too.

But, if you build your undergraduate career on cheating (which many students are now doing), it will be detrimental to your future. Getting through college is not about getting good grades (though that can be important) -- it is about learning difficult things by struggling with them. Yup, Chat can ace a CS106A assignment, but you won't learn a thing, despite the perfect assignment you turn in. You'll also do poorly on the exams (and it is getting harder to cheat on exams, and that ramp-up will continue).

Yes, there will always be cheaters who prosper after college, but don't think you're helping yourself by taking the easy route by cheating: it is much more likely to harm you for the future.

So, what do you do? Spend the time to do the work, even if that work is hard (as it should be). Don't take too many classes--you need the time to work on your assignments. If you are struggling, get to office hours, ask questions on class forums, get a tutor, etc. The good news (unfortunately), is that office hours are poorly attended these days because so many people are cheating, and there will be more time for you to get your questions answered.

I'm sorry this is a pessimistic post, but it is one of the most important things you are going to have to consider so you don't waste the next four years of your life. Things are very very different for you now than they were for everyone entering Stanford up until two years ago. Good luck!

[score 9] It's not a uniquely Stanford problem. I've been stunned at how much cheating there is among students entering college post-Covid.

[score 6] Get in great shape; learn how to use a CNC machine; how to use an old fashioned lathe and milling machine; be sure to know how to handle drinking; get comfortable with four mile runs and gym workouts. Narrow down where you want to get an internship. Keep fall quarter to 15 units.

[score 5] Do a SPOT trip. You'll make some acquaintances for sure and, if you're lucky, forever friends. Either way, it's a great way to start your time at Stanford with a few friendly faces.

[score 3] Don't fall into the 20 units of STEM culture. Balance your STEM classes out with other lighter classes. I'd recommend limiting yourself to 2 difficult classes per quarter. Problem Sets can be extremely time consuming.

[score 2] Say yes to things. Take chances. Do research if it makes sense with your major. Do something interesting with your summers. Study (or travel) abroad.

[score 2] (OP follow-up) I'm not sure if you may know, but is it normal for students to finish Physics 41 and Physics 43 freshman year (in diff quarters)? Idk if I would be doing too much or if that's the norm for engineering students.

[score 1] My machine shop class was one of my all time favorite classes!
