Title: How would you describe Stanford students and the Stanford vibe?
Source: https://www.reddit.com/r/stanford/comments/1k632oh/how_would_you_describe_stanford_students_and_the/
Type: Reddit thread (r/stanford)
Fetched: 2026-06-09 (via pullpush.io archive)
---

ORIGINAL POST:
I am trying to decide where to commit for Fall 2025. Everyone is telling me to choose Stanford, but Stanford is the only university that I am unable to visit in person. I'm trying to find out as much as I can about the Stanford vibe and community.

What are the students like? I keep hearing that Stanford students are chill and collaborative while being driven at the same time. One guy said that Stanford has a reputation of being full of LinkedIn warriors who live to inspire imposter syndrome in others. I don't see that in anyone I know going to Stanford.

What is the vibe like? Is there comradery among the students? Do students study together? Is it "my heart is in the work" like CMU? Are the dorms social? Are you happy you chose Stanford? What is your favorite and least favorite aspect? What do you wish you knew before you arrived?

COMMENTS:

[score 27] I am a junior and the past 3 years had been a transformative experience for me. People aren't cutthroat and there is comradery and if people are willing to study together, they are always down. But if you're looking for studying for every class, it depends on the people, people sometimes like studying alone and just depends on the content.

Dorm life is what you make of it, you can either just live in ur room or socialize. I have made friends from my freshman, sophomore, and now junior dorms. For me, my favorite aspect is that no matter what class you take, there's always support for you and that people are there to help ya. Least favorite is probably just the Stanford bubble, never really go out of it tbh, but that can always change. What I wish I knew: always ask upperclassmen for advice / classes they took / what not to take fall/winter/spring and with which prof.

[score 16] I was at Stanford a long time ago - over 40 years! So what can I say that is even remotely possible to be relevant today? I think it's only this: my gut feeling is that there is one big adjustment to make going from any high school to any university, and a second one going from any high school to Stanford or other top universities in particular:

1) High school to any college: there will be no adult who wants to bother with coddling you. Mom used to wake you up? No more mom. Set an alarm, and wake up to it. No fridge with meals in it from mom. Do your own laundry. Etc. This adjustment is true everywhere.

2) High school to Stanford. In high school, but for one girl who was the same, I was miles ahead in academic subjects just because I read. At Stanford, almost everyone has amazing high school achievement one way or another. So it means that often you'll be closer to the middle of the bell curve than you were in high school. But this is not a bad thing in itself. What can limit you is your reaction to that, and how much you center your self worth on being a positive outlier on the bell curve.

I know people who couldn't tolerate (1). I know one guy from my high school who couldn't tolerate (2). I think if you are able to take care of yourself, and you can take the ego hit of not being so exceptional from your peers, you'll find some nice people, some mean, some giving, some stingy. Surround yourself with the better people, and be one of the better people to others. And find out what study path suits you best and make it happen. Some do best studying with peers. I did best finding out of the way study locations and being isolated from distractions. But I think this is probably true at any college. Good luck.

[score 16] in the world, you can find all types of people. in stanford, you can find all types of people.

stanford, like most good 4-year colleges — allows students to be themselves and so new students will eventually settle into a shared vibe with like-minded students. in other words, you will create your own vibes because you are the vibe

[score 6] We take ideas seriously but not ourselves.

[score 4] I've been to Stanford quite a few times and as recently as last week to spend some time with my nephew. It's a bubble. It's a sphere of smart minds that know that the person next to them is special in their own way and has great ideas. Are there some people who might not "fit" that mold and are there because of legacy and name recognition - sure. But I was impressed listening to the people going there at least this last time around. But with any situation in life - you usually get out what you give into it.

[score 3] Summer camp.

[score 2] Stanford students will expect you to be motivated to do something well—they don't much care what it is. With a few exceptions (like premed requirement grading) they won't be competitive with you and will support what you're trying to do.

[score 1] Why anyone would choose to go elsewhere I don't know. I was at Stanford and Berkeley in the 80's. My oldest son is a Stanford MS&E '23 & a MS CS '24. Life-changing. The professors are amazing, always willing to help. Moreover, your peers are the single biggest factor. These people will be friends for life and just as interesting as you are.

[score 1] It's fair to say that Stanford isn't for everyone, but I think it is a magical place and I'm always so grateful to have gone there.

[score 1] My daughter is in her first year of grad school and the happiest she's ever been: socially, academically and physically.
